---
template: blog-post
title: "Unity Reviews: Eternal Return: Black Survival"
slug: /unity-reviews-eternal-return-black-survival-intro
date: 2021-02-26 12:49
description: "Eternal Return: Black Survival Review. Reviewing gameplay aspects
  of Eternal Return while also picking pieces of the game to implement into
  Unity, such as Top Down, Point and Click Movement."
featuredImage: /assets/black_survival.png
---
Welcome to my first series, Unity Reviews, where I will be going over games that I am currently enjoying while following it up by talking about how to create some of the features that are in each game. Let's dive right in!

I've been getting into a new game called Eternal Return: Black Survival. It's apparently a really popular game in Korea, the home of esports. It really intrigued me to see a game that is in both the MOBA and Battle Royale genres. Two super popular game types that have introduced to the world games like League of Legends, Dota2 and PUBG. Now that Eternal Return is out in the west, it will be interesting to see if it can compete with the likes of some of those bigger name games.

Going back a bit, I'd like to remember my time in the League of Legends beta playing mid lane and beating the owner of TeamSoloMid, Reginald. Happened once, but the game was much faster paced then compared to the game in front of us today. Even so, it really sparked a love for the MOBA genre that I didn't know I had. Previously, a few friends and I were playing original DotA, the Warcraft 3 custom game, every weekend and it just didn't really seem to be my kind of game. Too many angry people playing something that was super competitive and had a really high learning curve. But once League took hold I never let go. The funny part is DotA2 is my most played game on Steam. Hindsight is 20/20 I guess.

It is wild to think that I was just thinking about how to create a MOBA style game myself. Anyways enough about me, everyone is here for Eternal Return. My first take on the game is that it is really frickin fun! It has a lot of elements of both genres. Going fishing to create a fish and chips dish to keep your health up, while also finding gems and pickaxes to create upgraded accessories. Along with the actual fighting which is super fast paced, high intensity fights. Frankly that's a relief from most Battle Royale games that have you loot for half the time until someone with a sniper rifle shoots you in the head and BAM, game over. Womp Womp.

One thing about MOBA games is that there really isn't a lot of variation on skills any more. Games tend to take the same bread and butter abilities and combine them in unique new ways. I'm glad to say that although Eternal Return falls into the same category, they've done a really good job at creating characters that feel solid and unique no matter who you play. Shoichi, who plays similarly to Katarina from League of Legends, throws daggers while weaving in and out of battle. Personally, I feel like he has really satisfying gameplay that doesn't revolve around an ability that you press and watch folks die. Emma, my favorite, a magician who can exploit her spells to apply different effects and styles of damage onto the enemy. Overall the characters feel good with the standard QWER gameplay. The unique aspect of the character abilities in Eternal Return is that each character can level a weapon ability. Each player chooses from a subset of weapons for their character, e.g. Aya fires a gun, so she chooses between a pistol, assault rifle, or sniper rifle. These weapons all have a different weapon ability. So anyone using a pistol in the game might also have leveled their pistol ability which gives move speed and reloads their weapon! It is definitely a neat take that adds depth to the characters.

As for negatives, I personally am not a fan of Min/Maxing. What is that? Well, in certain games, the most effective strategy to do well is to have the most actions done in a certain amount of time to outpace the competition. In the beginning of Eternal Return, most folks don't even bother to attack each other because it is more cost effective to ignore them and focus on crafting and farming. That is the give and take, you get a fairly safe early game, but if you aren't near perfect in your movements and your actions, then someone will no doubt out level and beat you in a fight. Seems like a no brainer, "Yeh, obviously they beat you if they were higher level". But the fact is that to get that higher level you have to nonstop grind. One missed turn and there goes your whole run, someone is one level higher. The rate of error has to be near zero to stay relevant in the game. But in this short review that's really the only thing that really stands out to me as a serious negative. They have also done a pretty good job giving you the tools to map out crafting/farming runs so you can be as efficient as possible to mitigate this some, as well a crowd sourced builds that you can choose from if you are unsure or just getting started (although I highly recommend not using them).

All in all, I'm really enjoying Eternal Return and it has really given me more excitement to make games that follow the same pattern. Top down, skillshots and crafting galore! Having just gone through a handful of tutorials to try to create a MOBA game in Unity, lets identify some skills that might be useful that were difficult for me to find. The first being movement for a top down MOBA style game. If you want to get started now, search on NavMeshAgents for Unity and hopefully you will see right away how to get started moving your character in your MOBA. We will cover some additional things to really make movement in your top down point and click movement be really clean. See you next time!